Add top guides section to a11y intro + a11y content updates (#6059)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: docs/accessibility/guides/maintain-accessibility.mdx

---
sidebar_label: Maintain Accessibility
title: 'Maintain Accessibility | Cypress Accessibility Documentation'
description: 'Learn how to maintain long-term accessibility with Cypress, using continuous feedback and monitoring to prevent regressions and keep your application accessible.'
sidebar_position: 30
---

# Maintain accessibility

Accessibility isn't a one-time project—it's a continuous process. This guide explains how to transition from addressing known issues to maintaining long-term accessibility in your projects.

## Switching from "improving" to "maintaining"

When a specific accessibility rule reaches zero violations for a page, component, or application, you enter _maintenance mode_ for that rule. From this point a few areas are imprortant to focus on:

> - **Pre-Merge Insights**: Any new violations detected on feature branches are clear indicators that recent changes introduced the issue. This could stem from updates in application code that impact accessibility or expanded test coverage revealing new issues.

Reviewer: Suggestion to be more precise on the pre-merge benefit.

```suggestion
- **Pre-Merge Insights**: Any new violations detected on a feature branch are clear indicators that changes on that branch introduced the issue. This could stem from updates in application code that impact accessibility or expanded test coverage revealing new issues.
```

- **Post-Merge Monitoring**: If violations resurface on the main branch, tracing their introduction to specific pull requests helps pinpoint code or test changes causing the problem and facilitate follow-ups and training for developers.

Your ultimate goal is to achieve a fully passing state across all rules. Cypress provides you a lot of flexibility to manage large amounts of accessibility violations and make incremental progress towards well-defined targets. Through a combination of fixing accessibility problems, and configuring Cypress to focus on a tight scope of rules, standards, and application areas that matter most to you, you might be closer than you think to a "clean" main branch, from which you can expand your standards over time.

## Maintaining accessibility standards

A clean report marks a pivotal change in your workflow. Instead of working through backlogs, the focus shifts to preventing accessibility issues from merging into the main branch.

When those violations are all fixed, what exactly is Cypress Accessibility "doing" in your pipeline? And how should you measure success?

> ### What Cypress Accessibility is doing when a project is in maintenance mode {#what-cypress-accessibility-is-doing-when-a-project-is-in-maintenance-mode}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What Cypress Accessibility is doing when a project is in maintenance mode
```

Early feedback about accessibility on feature branches will allow developers to review small, precise reports, and get all the context they need to either fix issues immediately, or raise problematic patterns for wider discussion. This is especially helpful when a new team member joins, who isn't as familiar with accessibility practices, or when a well-meaning full-stack developer - somebody who can "get by" in the front-end - unintentionally makes a minor change with major accessibility implications.

Detecting problems before code merges allows the training, awareness-building, discussion, and remediation to all happen in the same cycle as regular code review, when everybody has all the context they need, not weeks or months later when it will be difficult to inject a ticket into the backlog to untangle what might have become a "load-bearing" accessibility problem.

> ### How to measure success in maintenance mode {#how-to-measure-success-in-maintenance-mode}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to measure success in maintenance mode
```

The issues surfaced in Cypress Accessibility should follow certain patterns, allowing you to get a good "pulse" on your team's effectiveness with accessibility and time spent dealing with issues. Key metrics for evaluating success include:

- **Trend Analysis**: Track violations on both the main branch and feature branches. A stable or downward trend indicates improved team awareness and fewer recurring issues.
- **Shifting Left**: Developers begin considering accessibility earlier, during ticket creation or design handoffs, reducing errors before they occur. At that point, mistakes are avoided, instead of corrected.

While perfection isn't the goal, mature teams will notice fewer violations in reports over time, enabling them to focus on delivering value without compromising quality.

> For most of you reading this, accessibility problems are quality issues, just like bugs and UI issues, and they are important and need to be addressed. This is why optimizing and minimizing the effort related to accessibility is so valuable in a literal sense - your team is going to spend time on accessibility anyway, every cycle saved on dealing with accessibility is freed up for feature work, quality improvements, and other important activities.

Reviewer: I think this is me editing my own sentence at this point.

```suggestion
Using Cypress Accessibility, you can treat accessibility failures as quality issues. Just like functional bugs and UI problems, they are important and need to be addressed. This is why optimizing and minimizing the effort related to accessibility is so valuable in a literal sense - your team is going to spend time on accessibility anyway, every cycle saved on dealing with accessibility is freed up for feature work, quality improvements, and other important activities.
```
